Unit Overview:

Computer networking is a key component of modern information systems. Secure and efficient implementation of distributed applications on server, mobile and desktop systems is vital to ensure effective use of available resources.

Introducing you to the foundations of computer networks and network security, you will explore the protocols, techniques and standards used globally within networked systems.

Covering the technological breadth of the ‘Open System Interconnection’ (OSI) model, topics include principles of reliable data transfer, routing algorithms, common networking protocols, security and network programming.

The unit provides a solid understanding of concepts for secure access and transfer of information across insecure channels, including symmetric encryption, public key cryptography and its modes of operation.

You will also develop distributed applications, implementing existing application layer protocols and building new protocols to hone skills for solving complex problems.




Learning outcomes
Upon completion of this unit, students will be able to:

describe the functions of computer systems and devices in computer networks, and understand the security threats relevant to the transfer of information across communication systems;

describe, analyse and compare a range of transport, network, data-link and physical layer protocols/algorithms in terms of their features, purpose and performance;

develop distributed applications that implement both established protocols (based upon existing documented standards) and derived protocols developed for specific purposes;

analyse and interpret mechanisms used for secure communication and develop distributed applications that allow for the secure transfer of information; and

describe and analyse the various administrative and social aspects of specific communication technologies, security threats, wireless/mobile computing platforms.



Assessment information
Assessments are subject to change up to 8 weeks prior to the start of the teaching period in which you are undertaking the unit.

Title	Must Complete	Weight	Offerings	Assessment Notes
Assessment 1	Yes	10%	All offerings	
5 quizzes at 2%

Assessment 2	Yes	25%	All offerings	
Programming assignment. All assessment tasks must be attempted.

Assessment 3	Yes	25%	All offerings	
Programming assignment. All assessment tasks must be attempted.

Final Examination	Yes	40%	All offerings	
It is mandatory to pass this component in order to pass the unit.